What is my general philosophy about skin care? Menos is more or complete routine? Well, the reality is that in my opinion the general philosophy of skin care really is to improve the skin of one. independientemente de cómo lo hagas da igual si lo haces con 300 productos o con un producto si para tu piel funciona si para tu vida funciona y si realmente te funcionó no porque puede llegar a ser que probaste 10 productos y te funcionaron sin embargo después probaste uno y también te okay so the general philosophy for me about the skin care is really do not work but I am a person who is very in favor of the optimization both resources, process, time, etc. what does that mean? it happens to me like for example with supplements I understand that maybe having 30 supplements of everything obviously will help. However, taking 30 supplements is a little bit tedious and gives you a extra charge, both mental and physical. It's not that it would cost you much to open the bottle with vitamin D and take it or take biotina, etc. However, I think that optimizes the process is a little better. For example, having 3 or 4 supplements. Having a supplement to sleep like magnesium glicinato, creatine, vitamin D, ashwagandha and rhodiola rosea, for example. And the same with skincare. Menos is more or routine complete? The reality is that for me, both 10 products and 3, if you work, they serve. However, I prefer to go by less, by the simple fact of what I'm saying. Or, there is a little more... How do I say it? Optimizing time and resources. Instead of having to buy something every month, even with supplements, as I said, todos los meses no compras algo que quizás te dura cuatro meses y sólo compras tres veces al año por ejemplo y compras 34 productos explico y cada uno con un fundamento científico detrás soy muy partidario de lo científico ok por ejemplo los ingredientes activos que a mí personally like, they are the niacinamida, the tretinoina, the retinol, acid and hyaluronic, zinc and I'm thinking of one more that really likes me a lot, and the truth is that I can't get one that I love. Those that are for me are hype, well there are many really, many things about hype, I don't think I will specifically think about what they think are hype, because I like to talk about not only personal opinion, although I like to talk about a personal opinion, but I like more news. In reality, the blog is not as a personal blog, but it's more like news, etc. With an opinion, but... etc. The retinol I like, the niacinamide also. The vitamin C is a good product that if it is well concentrated, a good brand, a good concentration and a good design of the product can work. However, they add vitamin C to many things for the simple fact that we know of the vitamin C. the color is nice and really the vitamin C is good, obviously it is good, but it has to be good, it has to be good, it has to be concentrated and not pure marketing. If the errors are common, I see people who start with skin care is 100% to buy so many things without having tried before. For example, if they are in a perfect routine with chat GPT or internet or in a video of YouTube that has served on the perfect routine compran 567 productos etc y después no la pueden mantener o porque les da pereza no lo puede mantener por el simple hecho de qué no les funciona no les funciona no ven resultados no le funciona y cambian o no la usan más no le hacen más bueno los errores más comunes entonces uno de of them is to buy a super extensive routine or perfect and then not maintain it. Or, as I said at the beginning, to buy a perfect routine without really seeing what could serve you really. For example, maybe you don't have acne and you have yellow points. Maybe you have acne very active and you don't have yellow points. Cada cosa funciona distinto. Por eso obviamente puedo decir a la dermatóloga o a la cosmetóloga para que te dé algún consejo, aunque es verdad que muchos cosmetólogas y dermatólogos hoy día te dicen cualquier cosa con el tal hecho de nada más o que les paguen la consulta o con la obra social que te lo saques de encima. Entonces sí, obviamente también recomiendo siempre hacer una investigación propia. Es verdad que yo creo que el momento donde más dinero vas a gastar va a ser al principio because you know what products really work. But keep it simple, three things, four things and see what things work. Come with a limping, etc. and then we'll talk about that. Marques that I think are good, The Ordinary, CeraVe, some of the L'Oreal. There are marques that I think are very good, there are a bit of famous ones, but there are others that are a bit more famous. marketing. Me parece que el movimiento Clean Beauty es interesante. Yo siento que en realidad lo Clean Beauty pasa más por la comida. Si tenés Clean Food vas a tener ya el movimiento de Clean Beauty en un 80%. Y el Skinimalism sí me gusta, me parece que es interesante mantener la rutina lo más optimizada posible. Protector solar, I like to go for the European protector, they are a little better designed by the sun in Europe, it is a little different, the color is different. And I think that's what's best, a SPF 50, for example, is ideal for the simple fact that it covers, although there are people who don't need it, but it's true that it is recommended for the majority and I also recommend it. and the skincare for men I don't think it is different, I think the focus has to be different the man has to stay clean, but not feminine so I think it is different from what are the products, but it is different from the focus that you have to look about the dermatologists in TikTok or YouTube are some interesting, others that they only look for money, like the 80% of the people, and I don't think it's bad. However, I feel that there is so much content that one has to review everything well. You have to review everything well. No you can just listen to what they say and say, no, no, review it well. Analize what they say, then do your own investigation, etc. So with many of these things, it will be better. if you are not a mistake or if it is not a routine, I mean, one week, two weeks, one month and no results obviously you will see results because because it depends on the case of your acne, the case of your skin, whatever you need to do there are many things that don't be solution with cream ok it takes time to optimize it's time to improve it's time to the tretinoina, you are going to be 8 months minimum for really results lindos but the first two what happens? You get the face, you get the face, you get granos etc and a lot of people leave it. These are examples that I am giving you.


What makes a brand of beauty, skin care, supplements etc. have success online? I am completely honest with you, there are a couple of things The main thing is the marketing of the company Yes, the reality is that, it is the marketing marketing marketing marketing del negocio el marketing de la empresa el marketing de la marca tu producto puede no ser el mejor tu página puede no ser la mejor pero si tu marketing es bueno vas a tener ventas ahora lo que realmente tener éxito es la optimización siempre hablo de la optimización optimización de todo qué es lo que pasa cuando tu usuario ve un producto tuyo en instagram tiene to buy it right then you have to enter your tienda your tienda is good or vieja you have a good one you have a tienda vieja you have a tienda that looks like in the 2000 you have a tienda he had wordpress or you have a good tienda personalizada he had shopify or you have a tienda personalizada based on code pura although it's true that I don't recommend yo que hago tiendas justamente no recomiendo en código sin embargo optimización optimizar ok se ve bien carga bien los productos el pipeline entre que la persona entra y va a comprar el producto qué es lo que ve entende todo eso son una de las cosas que después vamos a hablar realmente hacen que tenga éxito online una tienda o una marca si que la marca sea buena con el marketing y que la tienda la acompañe la tienda tiene que estar optimizada para lograr ventas a los leads generados por el buen marketing ok y una vez hecho todo eso tu producto obviamente que tiene que ser bueno porque si no es bueno después no te van a volver a comprar es verdad but then they don't return to buy, so your product has to be good. It's not going to be good for everyone, it's not going to fall well, etc. However, you have to focus on those three things. That your product is good, that your website will accompany the marketing and that the marketing is good too. So one of the errors I see in online tiendas of beauty or supplementing is that they are very important the I, the ego, the ego of who we are ourselves, why we have to choose ourselves, tranquilo a poca gente le importa who really are you what is what you can do for me because I am buying you then what is what you can do for me because I should buy you and there you don't have to explain who you are okay? the reality is that there you don't have to explain who you are the only thing you have to explain is this product this product will make it grow the hair again, this product will take that black point in the nose, this product will take that red color that you have. So one of the errors I see is obviously in the skin care online, is to focus a lot on the brand, or in who we are, for example. And what I was mentioning about that it is that no see modern, that no see well, that no see well, they have to go very fast, they have to be fast, they have to be optimized for the phone, obviously because many people who buy, or 80% easy, It's to say, you buy from the cell phone and more, most of these products are women who buy it. And women usually have much time with the cell phone that men. So, yes or so, we have to be optimized for a mobile phone market. Shopify, for me, is the best platform for selling products, in reality. They're very well done, they have good plantations, etc. the future of e-commerce both in beauty as in general it goes on without a doubt it is incredible the increase that it has the increase in the last years it is immense you give us an idea we are in the 2026 and the e-commerce really began to start from 2020 it is true that it existed I will say that not but from 2020 it was a explosion entonces hay que tener en cuenta eso hay que tener en cuenta que es algo tan nuevo que imagínense lo que va a ser dentro de 56 7 8 o 10 años es increíble hay artículos que demuestran el crecimiento tanto del e-commerce como del e-commerce en belleza skin care etcétera si o sea va a haber mucho aumento del uso del tráfico y más ok the content that plays a role the content that plays more a role for the sale is 100% videos reels tik tok youtube etc 100% of course no doubt it is the marketing modern estamos apuntando al público que usa tick tock al público que usa instagram al público que usa youtube al público que ve a kylie jenner y más ok ese es el público entonces a ver en la mayoría del público por decirlo de cierta manera ok por eso hay mucho influencer el marketing de influencer funciona te guste o no funciona yo soy fan la realidad que no sin embargo funciona esa the verdad funciona ok eso no cabe duda sí así que bueno yo personalmente si usaría influencer marketing si estás arrancando una marca ok d de lo que es beauty commerce

Bueno, yo empecé con el skin care hace aproximadamente un año y medio, ya vengo hace muchísimo igual con lo que es mejorarse uno, lo que es siempre estar un poquito mejor y eso es realmente lo que me apasiona. Me apasiona siempre estar un poco mejor, no solo en lo que es cara y piel sino en general, me parece algo muy interesante y algo que la verdad puede sumar mucho a una persona. Por eso uno de mis productos favoritos es el limpiador hidratante de Cera B o el hidratante en general de Cera B, el pote, me sirvió mucho al principio, después me dejó de servir, pero al principio me servía un montón azo, la tretinoína es muy buena aunque muy arriesgada y justamente es una de las cosas que me da bronca de la industria, que temienten, temienten y hay muchas cosas como joyas escondidas y los dermatólogos no te cuentan tanto de estas cosas, entonces no se entiende si o tienen tratos, tienen contratos o que es lo que está pasando, por eso yo uno de los consejos que le daría al link recién arranca es justamente, fíjense, investigan por su cuenta, investiga, investiga, investiga, investiga, ok, la realidad es que no es tan fácil encontrar productos ideales para tu piel si no sabes ni siquiera cuál es la condición de tu piel, ok, entonces primero aceite un análisis de tu piel, sea un dermatólogo o donde sea un confetólogo o quien sea que te haga un análisis real de tu piel y a partir de ella sabes lo que tienes y lo que tienes que mejorar empezás a investigar, ok, empezás a investigar productos, fórmulas, etcétera que te sirvan.